Hello again, you delightful go to people in this video, we're going to finish off the game with some
adding awesome.
We want visual effects.
We want some way to really get the plants a feel that best achieve something in the game.
So when the when the goal is scored, which is harder to say than you might think, we want to do a
few things.
First thing we do is have particles from the plants go to go nowhere 3D so we can be using mesh in our
particles.
We can have an actual 3D object as a particle.
I will put a spotlight on the player that scored the goal and then we'll see.
That's what light I want.
Dim the main lights.
Okay.
So three things.
Got it.
Let's get started.
I think I will start with the spotlight that feels like a bus stop to make a brand new spotlight.
Not.
The spotlight is very much like a directional light.
But the main difference is that where directional light is just say there is light come from this direction.
A spotlight actually cares about things like Webb, whether light source is and what the angle of the
beam is.
Neither of those is true of additional light.
So let's put on a shadow here so we can see a little bit more clearly.
I'm actually going to hide the directional light just as Lacasse now.
And as you can see right now, the spotlight isn't hitting anything.
I can extend it if that forgets the light spot.
Rather, I could change the range to 20.
And the angle to 20.
And you could just about see it make it really, really bright.
Make it absolutely clear what's happening.
I'm going to go into the camera and preview what that would look like.
There's a spotlight, you can see, because of an angle, isn't she reacting well to that to the world?
It's spreading realistically if you have them.
It's lighting.
That is absolutely what a spotlight would look like.
When unhide directional light right now.
Let's make this point directly down.
Some of it snap back on.
Let's actually select the spotlight.
I do this.
I'm going to transform it.
So it's rotated to face directly down as much and light on the X Adam.
Put this on zero Z.
And let's say, well, then why?
What does that look like?
Bri, preview that linoleum.
Let me show.
I've actually lost everything.
That's my camera.
There's my camera preview.
OK.
So the spotlight looking straight down.
Awesome.
OK.
Now this spotlight is going to be triggered on a group call.
Now the group call is the same for everybody.
When a goal is scored, a second look at what happens when I go to school.
Go.
We gonna call game play pieces and then call freeze.
Now, there's one more piece of information I want to put in here, which is the goal idea because we
need to know where we're pointing out.
So let's put that in goal.
Heidi, Net, when I call this, we might have a slight issue because the players are going to have
this freeze come.
Coming in now, because we do this as a group call.
It's going to drop the arrows.
We are technically getting ARRIS to play a script.
Freeze right here isn't taking arguments.
It should be.
But I'm not to worry about that right now.
But if you wanted to, you could go and update them so it would have the actual name of the company.
OK.
So we have the Dunwoody's coming through.
So now let's make it actually work.
So in our not directional light, in our spotlight, which I'm going to move up to be next to, are
actual like Southern.
Much easier to work with.
Let's put this in the group game pieces.
Let's just double check how that's written.
Game on, Scott.
I don't have to do that.
I can manage groups and just add it to that group.
So it goes in.
It's belongs to la la la la la.
Let's just take such a spotlight.
And I mostly put the directional lighting we will use in a minute.
So it's do directional.
OK.
So they're all considered game pieces at this point.
Let's now give a script to Spotlight.
Ha ha.
You have a new script and it's perfect.
All right.
Let's start the game with the light off.
So in your ready function and let's just use height.
Much easier.
I could play with things like the energy, the light, the rest of it.
But if I hide it, it's the same thing in one line of code.
OK.
Now I need to bring in this freeze function, which will bring in the goal lighting.
Giladi, who has scored.
Right.
So let's take a look at that function.
Freeze.
And as they come in with a plan.
This is the goal.
The argument and I'm renaming it play out, because here that's what I'm dealing with now.
I need to know what the players are.
So let's bring it in.
I need a variable player, one and a variable for play to that list.
Right.
Player one of these.
Tweak it to make this as malleable as I can.
As adaptable as I can.
I'm not gonna go up to the parent and then find the player wanted to.
We might reorganize this at some point.
Right.
Instead, I want to find it my name.
Now, we've done it before.
This is going to be get tre.
Dot gets route.
So go back up to the beginning of the century.
And then Greece finds note and we need the name of its player.
One.
And then we do know, is it recursive?
Yes, it is.
Is it owned by this node?
No, it is not.
OK.
So just duplicate that.
Do the exact same thing with plant to.
Finally, I need a variable for target.
Now, Target is going to be looking at.
So to make this work, I'm going to I could use an F or a match, to be honest, that pretty similar
here.
I was gonna say if player is equal to one target is equal to player one dot.
Translation.
Else he targets.
Is equal to player to dot translation.
Note, I'm only doing this in the free section itself, I'm not making these play a one play at two
things instance variables.
They only need to exist at this time.
So that's all they using it for.
Finally, we need to make the spotlight point in the right direction.
And to do that.
I'm going to use look at.
So here is a quick challenge for you.
I would like you to use the look at function to aim the spotlight at the player that's just scored.
And remember, in 3-D, if we're using look at we have to use a second document.
The first log meets your target.
The second argument is the optimal one, which was the orientation of the of the object.
If we don't provide that, it won't work.
Suppose the video.
Give that a shot.
And then when you're ready, come back and I'll show you my solution.
And welcome back.
OK.
So I want to look at Target.
That's already a translation.
Now I need to provide a vector three up.
So I was going to like vector three and it's zero on the X one of the Y zero Z because remember in 3D.
Why is up in 2D.
Why is down.
Because of reasons.
OK.
Finally we need to switch the lights off when that thing resets.
Now we know that we're using a reset call.
And I know that because if I go look at the level D when the time is finished, which is here, cool
group game pieces which we remember of reset.
Great.
So when the reset comes in, what we need to do, we just need to hide.
Done.
We don't need to be looking at this target every frame because the objects aren't moving.
So that is all we need.
Let's just check if that spotlight works.
Yeah.
For the future here, it doesn't work for two important reasons.
First, I forgot to actually show the lamp.
So it will look in the right direction, but you will never know.
Secondly, in the player, I told you, you don't have to update that I was wrong.
So I'm going to give it the word I.D. because I'm not using it in the script.
We're not actually gonna use that argument.
But if it's not there, the play was Signoria.
So let's try that again.
Well, again, I tried it and then cut this part of video, but you will now see a spotlight show,
then vanish now.
Great.
So that done.
Let's now face the directional light.
And to do that.
I'm just going to go to the directional light here.
I'm going to add a child and that's really an animation player, animation players.
All right.
I need a brand new animation and I will call this Faid.
And I need to pick my key, my key is going to be the light energy.
So start.
At one point, five can be a one second animation.
It's going to finish at zero.
That's the entire animation.
Now I need to get a script to my directional light to actually make use of that.
Let's give that a script.
Will you be here?
And this is the exact same process, right?
So we need a function freeze and a function reset.
And the freeze needs to have a player.
So let's do function freeze I.D. and I just go animation player thought play fade.
So that will fade it out.
Now, what happens on the reset function?
Reset.
Just have an argument.
I need to use that light energy, right.
So I'm going to mouseover it.
And that's light.
Underscore energy.
That's what you're changing.
So light underscore energy equals one.
Now, that's all good.
As long as this is in the right place, just to make sure, let's put in a ready function.
Function.
Ready.
And I'm going to call the reset function.
Nice and easy.
OK.
We should now have dimming lights.
Let's find out.
So here we go.
And dimming lights.
Look at that.
Myson dramatic, too.
OK, so that's all good.
Now, I don't.
It.
Now let's make a particle effect.
And to do this.
I want to get into the default places where I can play one open play template and I want to add a particle.
Now, we've played with particle's Tudi particle's 3D works in a very similar way, except we can also
use a mesh.
So let's first off position this thing directly above.
The head of the play.
I want little particles going out here.
And if you look at the models and we don't get the particles, we've got this lovely star.
Just open that up that there.
There's my stomach.
So we'll have that appear above the play.
And it's gonna sort of fountain outwards in a very dramatic city way.
So let's begin.
By hitting that draw passes a new.
And here, impulse one, I'm going to load.
Models.
Particles start Omeish.
OK.
So there is the lovely star.
Now let's click on that, because now I can do things like give the material.
Let's give the new spatial material on what you think.
Gold.
I think gold's recently yellowy orange color about all can give it some its palette.
We get it.
No roughness is OK.
So that's a good material.
Me.
Now let's go to actually working.
So it's not emitting.
If I switch that off, it'll just vanish.
So let's start by looking at the time, the silence.
This is a three second pulls on.
But so let's say this lost for one point five seconds or two seconds and we can sense a one shot as
well.
Now, if we make it a one shot, going to be hard to see today.
So for now, we leave it alone.
And let's get down to processed material, because this is where we designed the actual particle.
So let's bring you back and get new particles material.
And now we have some behavior.
Now, this is not the head we want to start.
So clicking on particles, we have all of these traditional options you might expect from the particle
system, the same we saw in particle 2D.
Now, first thing I want is I want these things to head upwards.
So let's head down to gravities here today.
It's Carani heading down.
I should move it up.
That's nice and easy isn't it.
And it even speeds up as it goes.
Why with there.
Let's look at the spread.
So that's the first thing.
Now would look under flags.
I want to rotate on the Y axis currently is going to spread of 45 degrees.
Let's bring it up to 180 and rotate on the wine.
We might not see any changes just yet, but we will see at five.
Got the initial velocity.
I want us to start nice and fast.
We're starting to see some differences.
No good play with the angular.
So let's say as an angular velocity, like how much it spins of 10.
Look at that.
And you think you should be a little smaller.
So it's got to scale.
And she's to scale 2.5.
Right.
I mean, that's pretty good.
And it's parent just what the hell?
Actually, move it up a little bit.
OK.
Now, I encourage you to play with these as much as possible, looking at documentation of the particles,
right, click on it and open the documentation and see where all these things can do.
Just a quick example.
Now, I don't want this emitting immediately so much, but to one shot and switch out.
And one more thing to do before I knew that actually do want more of these.
A 64.
Maybe that's too many when you think that to.
Yeah, OK.
And it's a one shot.
So switch off, emitting emit.
I'm going to buzz of source.
What's it like with 64 is a bust?
Not bad.
OK.
So I don't have it like that.
So here is our particle system.
Now let's make it work.
Well, the easiest thing to do is go into the script for the player and head on down to freeze.
So go can move equals false.
And we're bringing in the playwright.
Well, let's use that.
Let's say if a player.
Sorry, if the I.D..
Is equal to the player.
Heidi.
Then particles stopped emitting vehicles.
True.
Now, because this is a one shot, I don't need to switch that off.
Let's see how that works.
OK, so all being well, I can move this plane on the way over here and we can get E!
Not bad.
Right now there's a lot of things you can do to play with these particles.
We could go to the materials here to draw passes and get it.
We can make them transparent if we wanted.
And Jason, off the value of it here.
But I think that's really solid.
And I'm showing you a quick victory lap of the game.
So let's have one more load in.
Because this is cute, dude came out.
I hope you enjoyed this section.
I really enjoyed making this game.
It's a very, very simple introduction to the kinds of things can do 3D.
And we've used a lot of techniques with these before.
Right.
So a lot of physics, a lot of.
So a lot of physics bodies with particles, huge textures.
I just building on it to make ourselves a simple copp game.
We've even used some other stuff we use in the very first section and Looney Lips with all that player
percentage.
S CALCINATION business.
So excellent work.
And I shall see in the next section.